hi my name is Alex and my name is Jay
today we are gonna do some IELTS
speaking part one I'm going to show you
what bear 9 examples look like so why
are we gonna do that well we both scored
bear 9 in the test not just because
we're native speakers but because we
prepared really well and because we are
expert users bear 9 means expert user it
doesn't mean native speaker so native
speakers need to prepare as well and
some people might say it's not useful to
see a bear 9 sample that it could be
discouraging or it might encourage
people to copy or to think that that's
the only way to answer a question but we
don't really think that we think it's
good for you to see what a bear 9
example looks like and as a next
examiner myself I want to show you the
type events are that an examiner really
wants you to give them if you enrolled
in a cookery school they wouldn't teach
you using a kind of ugly lopsided I'll
debate a half-baked cake right they
would use the best most beautiful cake
they've got and then they would show you
exactly how to make that cake and that's
sort of what we do you know of course in
our live classes in our tutorial we're
not gonna do it in this video this video
we just want to show you what we can do
if you have done it of course you'll of
course recognize some of our methods and
check out each of them just calm if you
haven't signed up yet yeah I think
that's it so we're gonna use today
something we use in our tutorials
sometimes if you book a tutorial and
want to practice speaking with your
teacher we have this random wheel
situation and so we're gonna use it by
the way the difference between scoring
about 7 and about 8 or 9 as we got is
really about range not just accuracy so
you have to show big range of vocab and
grammar so that's why in this problem
we're gonna compete oh ok I'll steth
match okay game on game on we want you
to choose the winner at the end so I
want you to see who does the best
this IELTS speaking part well alright
you going down you're going first okay
all right so really I'm gonna spin the
wheel data and twist jewelry ah yes uh
no you probably know about jewelry okay
great news for me ready do I do this I
say let's talk about jewelry so I'm the
onus examining here we go let's talk
about jewelry great yeah Alex do you
wear any jewelry I do not all the time I
must say but recently I started wearing
jewelry more regularly I like to wear
earrings sometimes bracelets a ring as
well so it depends on my mood but yeah
typically I'll wear at least one piece
of jewelry oh my god that was really
good Oh what kind of jewelry do you like
I'm a silver person myself I don't wear
gold very often although I do have a
really nice pair of gold earrings that
my colleague gave me but yeah I like to
wear silver and I like to wear chunky
rings and chunky bracelets chunky at the
mirror why do some people spend a lot of
money on jewelry hmm
I suppose on the one hand it's a status
symbol if you wear big diamond for
example you might be showing people that
you're very wealthy very well-off but on
the other hand I think it's just it's
like buying a car or a phone it's just
something that boosts your dopamine is
it or serotonin or you'll feel good
hormone so yeah it's enjoyable IELTS
nine boys will never say that but okay
what kinds of jewelry do people pass on
to their children
well that's typically something that's
very valuable and something that has a
lot of sentimental value as well so in
my family for instance we pass rings
from generation to generation so I have
my grandmother's ring and her
gave it to her so I think you're
probably not gonna pass on something
like a ring that you bought it came out
or cotton or something like that
something which is valuable both
financially and emotionally okay cool
any more
no that's it let's go back it's your
turn let's spin the wheel ready we're
gonna bake that I'll try I don't know if
I can talk about neuroscience though in
my er let's see it says for this chair
this is great alright Jay let's talk
about sports fabulous do you play any
sport now well yes recently I've been
playing AFL sevens which is a form of
AFL but it's actually non-contact so the
reason being is that I don't want to get
hurt but I do enjoy the sport a lot and
I've also been doing a little bit of
bouldering which is a kind of a form of
rock climbing except that's done usually
indoors not on a mountain wall but in
fact on a plastic type of wall what
sports did you do in school well because
I grew up in Australia the sport in
summer was cricket so I played cricket I
was an opening bowl of medium pace if
anyone's from India they'll understand
what I'm talking about
I also did a bit of swimming every now
and then but also when I was young I
played as Australian football or AFL and
because it's such a high paced in fun
sport to play and it's also a great
spectator sport
- nice collocation should sport be
compulsory in high school yes I think
it's good to educate children from a
very young age about the physical body
so it may not just be that the playing
sport but I think they should be
learning about nutrition and physiology
and Anatomy for example because I
believe this will set a good foundation
for their lives as they grow up so they
develop nice eating habits for example
okay Oh alex is winning I'm trying to
influence the audience
kepta cannot do that okay what sports do
people enjoy watching in your country
well I think people used to enjoy
watching cricket but cricket is so
boring to watch that even the highlights
themselves seem to be boring and I think
that what other sports do they watch
well whenever the Olympic Games are on I
think everybody watches the Olympics
that just seems to be a an event that
attracts all sorts of viewers whether
they're into sport or not but in my
state where I live in Australia Victoria
again AFL or Australian football is
extremely popular and especially in
winter because there's nothing else to
do but watch football
oh alright you made it I made it I made
it to the end is it great yes so as we
were speaking did you hear variety of
tenses did you hear any interesting less
common or idiomatic language let us know
in the comments and choose your winner
team Alex or team TJ um I should just
say like when you're doing this you you
have to concentrate a lot don't you
mm-hmm
and you have to try to remain coherent I
think for me that's that that's the
hardest thing because the language is
there for me that grammar and vocabulary
but keeping my story coherent making
sure I don't just go round around and
really the same way or completely off
topic mm-hmm I do want to yeah keep it
structured keep it sequential that's
that's a tough requires real mental
effort mm-hmm I think the methods help
there just like with part-2 if you have
a few little systems so you know
instance one of them is compare the past
and the present hmm I find that kind of
thing really useful so even if I haven't
thought of my answer yet I'll say well I
used to or in the past or something like
errantly yeah and then I'll build my
answer around that but really like
anything practice I agree I agree even
for native English speakers you you you
can't go into this IELTS speaking test
without practicing you were an examiner
yeah
some native English speakers yeah what
did you see they usually did okay but it
was abundantly clear when they hadn't
prepared so I've my asking the question
like do you play any sport and they
would say yeah yeah okay and I would do
that and they would say yeah I play
sport if I'm mentally I'm thinking I
know that you're a very high-level
Speaker Boehner based on the answer I
can't tell if you're a bent to about six
or oh nine you you have to give me the
evidence because I'm recording
everything someone's gonna listen to
that recording if I just say oh they're
a native speaker they're nine yeah
they'll say to me will show me yeah
where's the range was the variety
where's the control so yeah you've got a
you've got to prepare yeah yeah and just
practice okay okay yeah and we're gonna
do part two next yeah part two we're
gonna do next but we want you guys to
contribute your part too so but also in
the comment section the tasks part 2
that you want us to talk about nice and
we'll do the same thing next time and it
have a competition everything's a
competition of course we put some money
on it
oh yeah we'll do it off camera thank you
for watching hope that was helpful for
you we'll see you next time bye
[Music]
you